README.md, before:

# Pensieve Local LLM Server

**Run Claude Code with a local LLM on Apple Silicon - no API fees, complete privacy.**

Pensieve replaces the "brain" of the `claude` CLI with a local model running on your Mac's GPU (via MLX).

---

## Quick Start (One-Line Install)

Copy and run this command. It handles everything: cloning, dependencies, model download, server startup, and launching Claude.

```bash
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/that-in-rust/pensieve-local-llm-server/main/scripts/install.sh | bash
```

*Note: Requires macOS (Apple Silicon), Python 3.9+, and Claude Code.*

---

## Usage

After installation, you can run it anytime using the alias installed to `~/.local/bin/pensieve`:

```bash
# Make sure ~/.local/bin is in your PATH
pensieve
```

Or manually run the script from the install directory:
`~/.local/share/pensieve-server/scripts/pensieve`

---

## How It Works

1.  **Installs** to `~/.local/share/pensieve-server`.
2.  **Downloads** the Phi-3 model (first run only).
3.  **Starts** the local inference server in the background.
4.  **Launches** `claude` configured to talk to localhost.

## Troubleshooting

**"command not found: pensieve"**
- Add `export PATH=$PATH:~/.local/bin` to your `~/.zshrc`.

**"claude command not found"**
- Install Claude Code: `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`

Commit message:

refactor: simplify distribution to single script and src folder, archive legacy code

README.md, after:

# Pensieve Local LLM Server

**Run Claude Code with a local LLM on Apple Silicon.**

Pensieve provides a local "brain" for Claude Code, replacing the Anthropic API with a local Phi-3 model running on your Mac's GPU (via MLX).

## Prerequisites
1. **macOS with Apple Silicon** (M1/M2/M3/M4)
2. **Python 3.9+**
3. **Claude Code** (`npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`)

## Usage

There is only one script you need: `pensieve`.

### Flow 1: The Happy Path (Daily Usage)
When you want to work with Claude locally:

```bash
./pensieve
```
1. The script checks that everything is ready.
2. It starts the server (if not already running).
3. It launches a `claude` session connected to your local model.
4. **When you are done**, simply press `Ctrl-C` to exit Claude. The server shuts down automatically.

### Flow 2: First Run (Installation)
The first time you run `./pensieve`, it handles the setup automatically:

1. It detects missing dependencies and installs them (`mlx-lm`, `fastapi`, etc.).
2. It detects the missing model and downloads `Phi-3-mini-128k-instruct-4bit` (~2.5GB).
3. Once downloaded, it proceeds to start the server and launch Claude.

## Architecture
The project has been simplified for distribution:

- **`pensieve`**: The master launcher script. Handles lifecycle, updates, and execution.
- **`src/`**: The Python source code for the inference server.
- **`zz-archive/`**: Legacy Rust code and experiments.

## Troubleshooting

**"command not found: claude"**
Install Claude Code: `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`

**"Server failed to start"**
Check `~/.local/share/pensieve/server.log` for details.
